Now, our text for today
introduces a number of qualifications
for an overseer in the congregation.
However, by extension,
the encouragement to reach out
or to set our heart
on making spiritual progress
applies to all of us.
The Watchtower  comment
at the end says this:
“In like manner,
brothers and sisters
“who desire to serve
as pioneers, as Bethelites,
“or as Kingdom Hall construction volunteers
do well to stretch forward
to attain their goals.”
We all know that the apostle Paul here
did not encourage anyone
to ambitiously strive
for a certain office or a certain status.
It is not about the appointments
or the office
as a ministerial servant or an elder.
And it’s not about the appointment
as a pioneer,
Bethelite, Assembly Hall servant,
or Kingdom Hall construction volunteer.
Paul here encouraged all
to reach out in an effort
to qualify for responsible work
in Jehovah’s organization.
Today, we want to talk about the “why.”
Why would brothers want to work hard
(as The Watchtower  comment says)
to qualify for assignments
in the congregation?
And sisters now have
more spiritual goals than ever
that they can reach out for,
such as SKE, Gilead,
and other spiritual goals.
Why would we all, regardless
of whether we are brothers or sisters,
stretch forward to attain spiritual goals?
We’d like to highlight three main reasons.
Let us open, first of all,
to Matthew chapter 5.
Here at Matthew 5:14, 15,
Jesus uses the illustration
of a lamp that gives light.
Now let’s look at verse 16,
as we want to see his conclusion:
“Likewise, let your light shine before men,
“so that they may see your fine works
and give glory to your Father
who is in the heavens.”
So the most important reason
for working hard to make spiritual progress
is our desire to glorify or praise Jehovah.
Is not the way Jehovah administers
his sovereignty and love
a great motivating force to reach out?
Additionally, consider Jehovah’s mercy
with us imperfect humans,
his patience in helping us,
and his promise to protect us
in these troublesome times.
So Jesus had good reasons to tell us:
“My Father is glorified in this,
“that you keep bearing much fruit
and prove yourselves my disciples,”
according to John 15:8.
So in this sense,
who of us can rightfully say it’s enough,
it’s time to relax,
let’s just maintain the status quo?
The contrary is the case.
We work hard, for example,
cultivating “the fruitage of the spirit”
in order to reflect
Jehovah’s wonderful personality.
And, in fact,
the apostle Paul uses the illustration
of a ‘mirror reflecting Jehovah’s glory,’
according to 2 Corinthians 3:18.
So making spiritual progress
is like polishing our mirror
in order to praise Jehovah better.
Can we see the smile of approval
from Jehovah as he watches us
and as he sees
the efforts of each one of us?
Now, what is reason number two
for our efforts in attaining spiritual goals
for reaching out
to improve our qualifications?
Let us please turn to 1 Timothy chapter 4.
The young Timothy
must have displayed
a maturity beyond his years.
According to chapter 4, verse 14,
Paul reminded Timothy
that he had been appointed
to carry responsibilities
in the congregation.
Why would Timothy need
to continue making spiritual progress?
Let us read chapter 4, verse 15:
“Ponder over these things;
be absorbed in them,
“so that your advancement
may be plainly seen
by all people.”
So Timothy’s advancements
in connection with his spiritual qualities
would be “seen by all people.”
So the second reason
for reaching out, or forward,
to attain our spiritual goals
is that others benefit.
For example,
if we reach our goals in the ministry
when it comes
to the amount of time that we spend there
or the quality of our conversations,
then others will benefit
—the people in the territory
and our brothers—
brothers who are working
on their spiritual qualities
so that one day they can serve
as a ministerial servant or an elder.
All of this can be seen by others,
and they benefit from their efforts.
Others will benefit from ones
serving at an Assembly Hall
or working in Kingdom Hall construction
or on a renovation project.
Our brothers and sisters need every help
and every word of encouragement
from each one of us.
Therefore, we all work hard
to continue making spiritual progress.
Since we have not stopped doing exactly this,
we might say that we have been able
to inspire others to do the very same.
It is contagious,
and we all continue to grow.
Now let’s look at the third reason
for our earnest efforts
in attaining spiritual goals.
Reason number three
is that we ourselves benefit from it.
Now, this seems to be a contradiction
because we are encouraged
to reach out, to work hard.
How can we, ourselves, benefit from it?
Now let’s turn to Hebrews chapter 5
in order to find out
in what way we benefit ourselves.
Paul here describes
this process of making spiritual progress.
And here in chapter 5, verses 11 to 13,
he describes the brothers as little children
—small children constantly needing help
and guidance even in very basic things.
Otherwise, they are confused
and helpless and frustrated.
But now let’s see what Paul describes here
about mature people in verse 14,
and we’ll continue reading
until chapter 6, verse 1.
He says here:
“But solid food belongs to mature people,
“to those who through use
have their powers of discernment trained
“to distinguish both right and wrong.
“Therefore,
now that we have moved
“beyond the primary doctrine
about the Christ,
“let us press on to maturity,
not laying a foundation again,”
and so on.
So Paul here tells us
to make spiritual progress.
This is something
that does not happen automatically.
He says, “press on”
—go forward.
So, what is the benefit for us?
As Paul here describes,
it will allow us
“to distinguish both right and wrong.”
In other words,
we can make good decisions.
And there is another benefit
in this connection
—making spiritual advancement
brings contentment.
It makes us happy.
As long as we work hard
to attain our spiritual goals,
we will see progress
—sometimes just baby steps—
sometimes two steps ahead,
and then sometimes one step back.
But anyway,
by doing this we ensure that we are
content and happy servants of Jehovah.
Now, in summary,
each one of us
—whether we are a brother or sister—
needs to continue reaching out
and stretching forward
to attain spiritual goals.
Why?
Because Jehovah deserves it,
and because others will benefit from it.
But, then, also, it’s a key for us to succeed
as a mature, content,
and happy servant of Jehovah.